DockerHub
username : snisinha
pwd : SniiDeL@2024

Ubuntu
uname : snisinha
pwd : SniiSinHa@102

Docker commands 
--------------------

docker run imagename : runs docker image
- docker run hello-world : prints hello world document
- docker run busybox echo hi there : uses busybox image to echo hi there on terminal
- docker run busybox ls : lists all folders present in busybox 

docker ps : list all crunning containers
- docker ps --all : lists all containers ever created on the system

docker run = docker create + docker start

docker create containername : to create new container (outputs containerid)
docker start -a containerid : to run container
docker system prune : remove all containers

docker logs containerid : getting a log of all the outputs emitted from container

docker stop containerid : stop command providing time for cleanup
docker kill containerid : stop command immediately
 - kill command sent automatically if stop does not work within 10s

docker exec -it containerid command : execute an additional command in a container
* -it flag : allows us to provide input 
- docker exec -it containerid sh : opens up terminal inside container
- docker run -it imagename sh : starts empty container and runs shell

** two simultaneous running containers do not share a file system unless explicitly connected

create dockerfile : configure to define how container behaves
pass to docker cli -> pass to docker server -> creates usable image 

Dockerfile : 1. specify base image
	     2. run some commands to install additional programs
	     3. specify command to run on container startup

docker build . : runs dockerfile present in directory to build image
docker build -t customname:version . : builds image with a custom name

* to manually build docker image using docker commit 
1. docker run -it imagename sh : to create container and run shell in already existing image
2. (inside shell) : apk add --update imagename : basically run command from dockerfile
3. (in diff terminal) : docker commit -c 'CMD line dockerfile' containerid customname\
4. docker run customimagename/id


copy ./ ./ 
./ (1) : path to folder to copy from on "your machine" relative to build context
./ (2) : plcae to copy stuff to inside the container

docker run -p port1:port2 imagename : docker run with port mapping to lift runtime constraint on incoming port traffic to container
- port1 : route incoming requests to this port on local host to port2 inside container


WORKDIR /usr/app : any following command will be executed relative to this path in the container


Docker Compose 
- separate CLI that gets installed along with Docker
- used to start up multiple Docker containers aat the same time
- automates some of the repetitive code passed to 'docker run'

docker run myimage => docker-compose up
docker build . + docker run myimage => docker-compose up --build

docker-compose up -d : launch multiple containers in background
docker-compose down : stop containers
docker-compose ps : to view status of running containers